Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today I’m
going to explain an American drama film
called “Flight”, which is loosely inspired by
the plane crash of Alaska Airlines Flight 261.
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care!
The movie starts in a hotel room where pilot
Whip Whitaker wakes up with one of his flight
attendants, Katerina Marquez. The condition of
the room tells us that they had had a wild night
of alcohol, cigarettes, and intercourse. Whip’s
ex-wife calls him to talk about their son,
but Whip dismisses her, saying that they can
talk later. Katerina gets ready and leaves for
the airport for their next flight while Whip
is still hungover. He snorts a line of cocaine
to wake himself up and gets ready.
Whip then gets to the airport and into
the flight. He is welcomed by Katerina and
another flight attendant named Margaret Thomason.
He meets his co-pilot Ken Evans.
As the two prepare for the flight,
Whip asks Margaret for an aspirin,
claiming he hasn’t slept in two days.
Somewhere else, a drug addict prostitute named
Nicole comes out of a hotel room after a night
with her client. She goes directly to her
dealer’s place and asks him for drugs. He
offers her to be in an adult movie for money, but
she declines. She buys a small quantity of heroin
from him. The dealer warns her to be careful
with the drug because it hasn’t been cut.
Back in the flight, Whip, and Ken take off
despite the bad weather. They ascend a little
aggressively. Ken seems to notice Whip’s
weird behaviour, but doesn’t say anything.
Whip asks to fly the plane himself, instead of
keeping it on autopilot. The turbulence gets worse
as they reach a higher altitude. Whip then levels
off the original route to avoid an area of smooth
air. He pushes the plane higher and faster in an
attempt to make it reach a higher altitude. Ken is
nervous about the decision, but Whip assures him
that he knows what he is doing. Ken reports the
flight control that they are diverting from their
original path because of the weather. Whip takes
the plane to a safer level and stabilises it.
The turbulence finally stops, and the passengers
applaud in appreciation of the pilots.
Meanwhile, Nicole reaches her home and sees
her perverted landlord inside. He is
there to ask her for the due rent.
She forcefully sends him outside to wait until she
showers. But instead, she brings out the drug and
injects herself with it. As she feels its effects,
the landlord yells at her to open the door.
At the same time, Whip comes out of the cockpit
to apologise to the passenger for the aggressive
take-off. While announcing, he pours three
mini-vodka bottles into an orange juice
and drinks it. Sometime later, Margaret walks
into the cockpit to see the plane on autopilot
and Whip sleeping peacefully. The mission control
informs Ken that the plane is ready to descend. As
he presses a few keys, aggressive turbulence
pushes the plane forward, waking Whip up.
The passengers start to panic. Margaret asks
everyone to fasten their seatbelts quickly.
Ken and Whip try to control the plane, but the
steering mechanisms don’t seem to work. Now, they
are going on a straight dive without control. They
inform the mission control about the hydraulics
not working, but receive no useful feedback.
Whip stays calm and asks Ken to ditch the plane’s
fuel. He also tries several different emergency
maneuvers to bring the plane back under control
but is unsuccessful. Whip calls Margarete into
the cockpit to help him pull down a lever.
She straps herself in place and helps the pilot,
but the plane doesn’t stabilise. A forceful jerk
makes one of the stewardesses hit her head and
falls unconscious. As the plane is about to hit
the land, Whip thinks of an idea. He asks Ken to
retract the flaps and the gears because they are
going to roll down. Then, he asks Margate to say
I love you to her son, because the black box is
recording. He knows that saving the plane is not
possible now. Whip gets a little control of the
steering and rolls the plane upside down to make
it go at a lower speed and buy them some time to
find a safer landing spot. The stewardess who fell
earlier rolls around and falls to the ceiling.
The passengers are in a panic when one little
boy mistakenly unstraps himself. Katerina goes
to help him and fastens his seat belts.
Below, Nicole’s landlord and a paramedic
rescue her as she has overdosed. They, too, see
the upside-down plane flying in the sky.
Back in the plane, Whip keeps himself
composed, but Ken starts to panic.
Both of the engines fail at the same time. Whip
turns the airplane over again, ready to crash
land. They slowly descend to a field, and one wing
hits a church’s tower, shearing it off. The plane
then slams onto the field. Whip’s head bangs
against the steering yoke, and he knocks out.
We see Katerina’s body lying limp on the ground as
Margaret cries in the background. The paramedics
arrive and rescue the passengers and the crew
members. The plane is broken in half.
Whip wakes up on a hospital bed and sees his
friend and a pilots union representative,
Charlie Anderson, in his room. Charlie
praises him for saving a lot of lives.
As it turns out, only six out of the one hundred
two people on the plane died, including Katerina,
another stewardess, and four passengers. His
co-pilot is in a coma. Whip has incredibly
managed to save a lot of people considering the
situation they were in. The people from National
Transportation Safety Board NTSB come to interview
him and leave after asking some questions.
Shortly after, Whip’s friend, Harling, brings
Whip some cigarettes and alcohol, but Whip refuses
to drink. Harling informs him that his home is
surrounded by the media, who are dying to take
his interview. His heroic deed is being praised by
everyone. Whip asks Harling to bring his clothes
and belongings to the hospital, because he
is getting discharged the following day.
Later, Whip goes to the hospital’s
staircase to smoke and comes across Nicole,
the prostitute who had previously overdosed.
A talkative cancer patient joins the two.
The three smoke while talking about several
things. The patient believes that there's
no way to stop things from happening. Like him
getting cancer and Whip landing the plane, the
three of them meeting there was also inevitable.
After he leaves, Whip asks for Nicole’s address
and promises to visit one day.
After being discharged, Harling takes Whip
to his family home on a farm because his home is
surrounded by the reporters. When he gets to the
farmhouse, he pours all the alcohol in the house
down the drain. He has made his decision to get
sober. Later, Whip gets a call from Charlie, who
invites him to meet a lawyer named Hugh Lang. He
goes to meet them and gets to know that the NTSB
has found out about him being intoxicated before
the flight. Since someone has to compensate for
the deaths of the passengers, they are likely to
blame Whip for being intoxicated, which can result
in life imprisonment. Whip doesn’t take this
information well and goes to the bar and starts to
drink again. He buys a bulk of alcohol on his way
back and stops by Nicole’s place. Her landlord
is forcefully trying to get money from her.
Whip gets there just in time to get him off her.
He offers the man some money and brings Nicole
to his farmhouse after realising she has nowhere
to go. That night, the two end up having sex.
Over the next few days, Whip continues to avoid
the press, but soon realizes that his reputation
could be plagued by the others who were around
him. At Katerina's funeral, he meets Margaret,
who claims she could tell that Whip was drunk
when she encountered him that morning. Whip
then starts to get personal, claiming that if not
for him, she could have ended up dead as well.
Whip then visits Ken at the hospital.
Ken explains he hasn't told the NTSB,
who have been investigating the crash, about
his suspicions on Whip's condition at the time.
Ken knows what Margaret does, Whip was hung over
in the cockpit and that he may have been drunk
when the accident occurred. Even though he may
never walk again, Ken and his wife believe that
his survival was a miracle. The couple is strictly
religious and insist that Whip pray with them,
which he does reluctantly.
Meanwhile, Nicole has been
turning her life around, getting a job at a
grocery store and has been attending self-help
meetings to sober up from drug addiction. She
takes Whip with her to one of the meetings,
but an uninterested Whip leaves mid-way.
Shortly afterward, Nicole finds Whip working
on the Cessna in his father's garage. Whip tries
to persuade Nicole to fly to Jamaica with him. She
stops him and claims that he needs rehab, which
angers Whip. The two get into an argument, and
Nicole storms off into the house. The following
morning, Nicole leaves him a note and flees from
the farmhouse with her luggage. Saddened by
her departure, Whip starts to drink even more.
One day, he comes back to his farmhouse to see
reporters waiting for him. With nowhere else
to go, he rushes to his ex-wife’s house.
However, since he is drunk, his family doesn’t
want him there. Whip gets into an argument with
his son and is kicked out of the house. Outside,
the media surround him. He manages to get away
after giving vague answers to their questions.
Charlie is outraged by Whip’s alcoholism. They
are trying to prove that he wasn’t intoxicated
on the flight, but he is making it harder by
drinking every day. For the next eight days,
Whip stays with Charlie. Hugh has managed to have
Whip's alcohol test thrown out on a technicality,
but they still need to have Whip present his side
of the story to Ellen Block, the investigator for
the NTSB. The evening before the hearing, Whip
is brought to his hotel room. Nervousness gets
the best of him that night. He cannot sleep or
go through the documents that Hugh had prepared
for him. When he looks at the room’s mini-fridge,
he finds all kinds of alcohol have been removed.
However, he discovers a door that leads him to
the other room. The mini-fridge inside that room
is fully stocked with alcohol. Whip tries
to control himself but is unsuccessful.
The following day is the day of the
hearing. Charlie and Hugh knock on his door.
When Whip doesn’t open it, they walk inside using
an extra set of keys. They are shocked to find the
room trashed and bottles of alcohol scattered
everywhere. Whip is in the bathroom, completely
drunk and out of his mind. He asks Charlie
to call Harling and bring him some cocaine.
Charlie and Hugh have no other way to get
Whip back to his senses before the hearing,
so they agree. Harling comes to the hotel room
and snorts cocaine along with Whip. Whip then
gets ready and leaves the hotel confidently.
At the hearing, Block doesn’t suspect Whip at
all. She instead claims that the cause of the
plane dysfunctioning was a damaged jackscrew
in the tail of the plane that was supposed to be
repaired a few years ago. The jackscrew forced the
tail stabiliser to turn around, which caused the
plane to dive. However, after saying that, Block
reveals that they have found two empty bottles
of vodka in the crash, which was only accessible
to the flight crew. She adds that Katerina, who
has a history of alcoholism, must have had the
alcohol and asks Whip what he thinks. Whip goes
silent for a few seconds and finally admits that
he drank the vodka, not Katerina. Everyone present
at the hearing gasps, and Charlie tries to object
but is dismissed. Whip finally confesses
that he was drunk and high while piloting
the plane and is drunk right now too.
In the following scene, we see Whip in prison
with his fellow prisoners. He tells them
that the hearing was his breaking point,
and he couldn’t lie anymore. It has been thirteen
months since the hearing. He believes that he will
be there for the next four years. While in prison,
he has sobered up and improved his relationship
with his wife and son. We see his son visit Whip
to know more about his father. He refers to Whip
as the most fascinating person he has ever seen
and takes his interview for his college essay.
Subscribe for more videos like this,
turn on notifications, and leave a
like to help the channel out.
Thank you for watching.